
"Hi, guys! It's Gigi!" says a peppy female voice. "I am literally watching the Bruce Jenner documentary right now and it's just something I felt strongly about and decided to do a random video. I just got out of the shower and my hair is braided, because that's what I do when it's wet — that extension life, girl — but I just wanted to sit down and make a video because I am honestly so proud of him."

The woman talking in this YouTube clip, which has over 2.1 million views and counting just days after it was posted, is Gigi Gorgeous. With her Barbie-esque looks and personable, upbeat videos, the 23-year-old has gained a following of 1.5 million subscribers on her YouTube channel.


MORE FROM INTERNET'S MOST FASCINATING52 articles

Ellen DeGeneres Became Internet Famous by Loving...

Cyrene Quiamco Can Make $10,000 for 1 Snap on...

Amanda Oleander Is Periscope's Breakout Star

6 Controversial Moments That Got Jenny Mollen in...
The videos started out as a creative outlet during Gigi's Catholic high school days in Canada, where she shared video stories of losing her cell phone and documented her transition process from male to female ("Initially, I was thinking this is going to be a walk in the park. That was not the case at all. It was probably one of the most painful things I have ever been through," she said in a video about her breast augmentation).

She now splits her time between L.A. and Toronto and has become a full-fledged career YouTube beauty-and-makeup guru, landing a partnership deal with major beauty brand Too Faced.


#tbt to when my first time in Miami was the BEST TIME?? Saw so many beautiful faces and letters that I've read over and over?? Thank you all so much for making my life GORGEOUS?? love you??
A photo posted by ????? G I G I ????? (@gigigorgeous) on Apr 30, 2015 at 11:55am PDT
These days, from the minute she wakes up to the minute she goes to bed, Gigi is checking in with her fans on social media and sharing what she's up to. (Exhibit A: After a TV appearance to talk about Jenner's Diane Sawyer interview, she posted on her Instagram: "Access Hollywood Live this morning was so much fun ?? be sure to check out the full video ?? thanks Billy Bush and Kit Hoover ??.")

The day after, on a visit to NYC, she set down her video camera and cell phone for a few minutes to chat. Over a grilled cheese sandwich lunch (she prefers it with plenty of ketchup), Gigi talked about her rise to Internet stardom, her thoughts on Jenner's transgender announcement, and purple smoky eyes.

How did this YouTube project begin?
I started doing videos in high school with my friends. I was very popular, I did my own kind of little reality show — mainly my videos were about beauty and very gossipy in nature. I was just a very creative kid. I went to a Catholic high school so I wanted to use this to break out of my shell. YouTube was just beginning to take off when I started, but I built a strong following within the first year. It's been almost seven years now.

When you first started your videos, your focus was your transition process from male to female, but now you are mainly doing beauty.
I am not mapping it out; it is just whatever I like doing. I think that has really worked for me over the years. I only focused on the trans stuff because I was going through it. Now I don't do that because I am not going to the doctor anymore. Maybe my focus shifted because, like anything, you learn and grow and conquer and move on.

In one of your videos, you talk about how you never officially came out and that you just feel like people always knew you were gay. What was that whole process like?
It's hard because when you are transgender, you feel like you want to wait until you have fully transitioned before you really talk about it. You don't want to announce it yet. I see that in a lot of people today. I am so close with my family so you would think it would be so easy to talk about this with them, but it wasn't — it's like dropping a bombshell on them. Once I was decided, I was decided, and everyone else had to follow suit. That was when I was 19, in 2012. The thing was, most people already just sort of knew I was gay.


Who did you tell first?
I talked to my mom, dad, and brothers first. I wanted everyone in my family circle to know so they could tell everyone else. It felt amazing; it was a big weight off my shoulders. Work aside, this is life. It is so important to be true to yourself, you know? You can have everything in the world, but if you aren't happy within yourself, it's not worth it. It was a change that needed to be made and it feels good. It was probably six months before I decided to actually tell my family, but I knew for much longer than that.

Was it tough being at a Catholic high school?
Coming out in a Catholic school had its difficulties, but I was making YouTube videos at the time so I think people found it more fascinating. Of course, there were those that were not supportive — there always are! But I surrounded myself with very positive people who only wanted the best for me. I loved high school as a whole. I consider myself really lucky.



WE RECOMMEND
YouTuber Gigi Gorgeous on Caitlyn Jenner: "This Is a Huge Step for the Transgender Community"
What was it like to share your transition with your viewers?
The beginning was definitely the hardest part. There were so many new experiences for me that I was taking on and I felt I had the pressure from everyone to be perfect. It was also quite funny because I had gotten many calls from friends I hadn't spoken to in a few months and they would ask me how I was recovering. They found out where I was in my transition from my YouTube videos! It was a great feeling to have that support.

One of your most recent videos was about Bruce Jenner. What role have you, and your YouTube channel, played in helping the transgender community?
What a moment, right? I think it's been good. My video has been very well-received. It wasn't even anything wild — no makeup and just my webcam and my opinions. I think people were shocked I was talking about it because I don't usually talk about pop culture on my channel. It's more about me and makeup and beauty. I never do like, "What's Kim Kardashian wearing today?" But also I think I turned some people around, because a lot of people feel like the whole Bruce Jenner thing is a circus. I didn't feel like that at all. I saw him as a generous person opening up.

Have you seen more interest in your channel as a result of the trans community getting more media attention?
I don't think it is solely due to the media attention the trans community has been getting, but because I stay true to myself and the content that I put up on my channel. I have amassed this following and I got to where I am today just by being myself. My viewers feed off that positive energy.


How much of your life is spent on the Internet?
All the time, 24/7. From the moment I wake up, I am checking social media. I am very passionate about it and want to keep the ball rolling.

Do you have multiple jobs, or is this the main gig?
This is by far my highest-paying job and it's my only job. I have a good enough following to live off of, and any passion project that comes my way, I am going to get it done. This is my life.

How has your Internet fame changed your life?
For the better in so many ways. It really has. I have always been creative, ever since I had a video camera. I was always the one to want to take pictures, add filters, do videos. It has also opened up a lot of doors. I definitely wouldn't be coming to New York at this point in my life because I am so young. I am 23. I would otherwise still be in school. It has also opened up my social circles, and I get to travel, which is great. I am proud to say that YouTubers who I have finally got to meet are now in my social circle. I frequently travel to NYC, but I was just in Tennessee, Dallas and Miami — cities I have never been to [before] and have now grown to love. I will definitely be going back. An opportunity for me to go to London just came up, so that is exciting.


There are so many people trying to be Internet famous. What do you think is the key to your web success?
Listening to my fans, listening to myself, not doing what everybody wants me to do, and keeping things fun and interesting.

I am sure you have been approached about a lot of projects and sponsorship deals. What interests you?
A lot of TV projects come my way. For me, it has to be the perfect fit. TV isn't something I need right now. But this past Saturday, I was in Miami for a meet-and-greet with Sephora and I love doing things like that. It is interesting to see that my demo reaches far beyond young teenage girls, which is the majority [of people] that watch my videos. Middle-age women, boys, fathers — everyone was there. It was a family affair! Fans always want pictures. One girl asked that I sign her forehead — so crazy!



WE RECOMMEND
4 Inspiring Transgender Women Who Are Changing the Beauty Industry
Do you ever get bored of beauty?
I do get bored of beauty. I am not going to post something I am not passionate about so I have started doing less beauty tutorials. And, why post a purple smoky eye if I have already done one? It's a stupid business decision! No one is going to watch that. Since the beginning of my channel, I dove right into the beauty space, because it is what I knew and what I was interested in at the time. I've definitely grown up and I do some beauty tutorials still, but I have been focusing more on lifestyle and comedy content, more Q&A's, and stories about my personal life.


What will you do if it stops being fun or people lose interest?
It is not about people losing interest. I create videos because I enjoy it and it is a passion of mine. I am always reading my viewers' comments and suggestions, and try to integrate that into my programming, but as long as I stay true to myself and am honest with my viewers and fans, I don't see why they would lose interest.

What's next? Where do you see this going?
I am absolutely open to other opportunities outside of the digital space, whether it be guest-hosting on a talk show, writing a book, [or] starring in a movie, but my channel will always be my first home and I would never want to steer away from my roots. I will never stop making videos.

Follow Kristin on Twitter.