When Caitlyn Jenner, formerly known as Bruce Jenner, unveiled her new name, appearance and TV show last week, it shined a light on transgender Americans. But much about the community, such as its size, remains opaque.

The main reason is that the United States Census Bureau and other keepers of official records do not ask about gender identity. Also, gender identity can be fluid and hard to define in a multiple-choice list. There are now more than 50 gender options on Facebook, for instance.

Some researchers are also concerned that the number is undercounted because of a reluctance among some transgender people to discuss it with survey takers or signify it on a government form. In a study by the National Center for Transgender Equality and the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, 71 percent of transgender people said they hid their gender or gender transition to try to avoid discrimination.

Continue reading the main story
RELATED COVERAGE

For Some in Transgender Community, It’s Never Too Late to Make a ChangeMARCH 6, 2015
Yet knowing more about transgender people is important for policy-making in health, education, criminal justice, social services, sports, the military and more.

Photo

Caitlyn Jenner, formerly known as Bruce Jenner, helped bring attention to transgender Americans last week. Credit Mladen Antonov/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images
“We see health disparities and socioeconomic disparities that are likely related to stigma and discrimination, so to understand those and try to figure out what the policy would be to try to remedy those disparities, we just have to have better data,” said Gary Gates, research director at the University of California, Los Angeles Williams Institute, which studies law and public policy related to sexual orientation and gender identity.

There are no national data, but two studies have tried to quantify or describe the transgender population in the United States.

The most recent paper, published last month by the Census Bureau, analyzed people who most likely were transgender, based on the fact that they had changed their name or sex with the Social Security Administration. It also examined their census records. It was novel because it was the first effort to use administrative data instead of survey data to learn more about transgender people in the United States.

Continue reading the main story
RELATED IN OPINION

Opinion: What Makes a Woman?JUNE 6, 2015
Graham BridgemanEditorial: The Quest for Transgender EqualityMAY 4, 2015
Since the Social Security Administration started in 1936, 135,367 people have changed their name to one of the opposite gender, and 30,006 also changed their sex accordingly, the study found. Of Americans who participated in the 2010 census, 89,667 had changed their names and 21,833 had also changed their sex.

Data like this “can promote informed policy and ultimately cast light on a part of our society traditionally kept in the shadows,” Benjamin Cerf Harris, an economist at the Census Bureau, wrote in the paper.

People were most likely to make the change in their mid-30s, he found. But transgender women — those assigned to be male at birth who identify as women — often began later in life than transgender men.

Of the 135,367 likely transgender people who changed their names with the Social Security Administration, 65 percent were transgender men and 35 percent were transgender women. Transgender women, meanwhile, were more likely than transgender men to note the change in their sex with the government. (From 2002 to 2013, the Social Security Administration required proof that genital surgery had been completed before people could change their sex in official records, but it no longer does.)

Not all people who change their names do it with the Social Security Administration. But transgender people can face privacy and other issues when official documents show different identities. After the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, for instance, the Department of Homeland Security notified employers if an employee’s name and sex did not match Social Security records.

One of the basic challenges with gathering this data is that most questionnaires require people to specify whether they are male or female — a choice that does not accurately reflect some people’s identities. The people who were most likely transgender based on their Social Security records were 1.6 times as likely as nontransgender people to check neither box on census forms, and 6.5 times as likely to check both, Mr. Harris found.

Photo

Christine Jorgensen in 1953. She was the first widely known transgender person in the United States. After serving in the Army during World War II, she later worked as an actress and nightclub entertainer. Credit Art Edger/NY Daily News Archive, via Getty Images
That has far-reaching ramifications for understanding gender identity, he said, “because this question appears everywhere, from surveys to credit card applications to all the forms we fill out at the doctor’s office.”

In Mr. Harris’s study, census data showed that people who were likely to be transgender based on Social Security data were more likely than the general population to be white, Native American or of two or more races.

Continue reading the main story
RECENT COMMENTS

Jess Pratt 2 hours ago
Trans woman here. I just wanted to let you guys know that seeking population size data is insanely difficult in the trans community for the...
Bill M 3 hours ago
Without a definition of what a "transgender" is, how can anyone get a meaningful "best estimate" of how many there are? Will someone please...
Mitzi 3 hours ago
Media coverage of the Jenner affair seems way out of wack for a minority of less than 1 percent of the population. It's the sensationalism,...
SEE ALL COMMENTS  WRITE A COMMENT
Also, states with laws prohibiting discrimination on the basis of sexual identity, like Washington, Oregon and Vermont, had larger shares of transgender people. States without those laws had the smallest shares, including North and South Dakota, Louisiana, Alabama, Kentucky and West Virginia.

Before Mr. Harris’s paper, researchers studied the transgender population using surveys. Administrative data from government records provides a different look, because surveys must be very large to accurately quantify such a small population, and respondents to gender identity surveys have generally been disproportionately younger, white and educated.

Mr. Harris said the techniques he used could provide information on transgender people’s earnings and employment, marriage and divorce, household characteristics, access to health care or incarceration rates.

He cautioned that the Social Security data does not represent everyone who is transgender. It excludes people who have not changed their names, who have not notified the Social Security Administration, who transitioned before they were 16 or who do not have a Social Security number. (The use of Social Security numbers as a universal identifier began in the 1970s, and newborns were not routinely assigned numbers until the 1980s.)

Another paper, published in 2011 by the Williams Institute, used survey data to attempt to count the transgender population. It estimated that 0.3 percent of the population, or 700,000 adults, identified that way.

CONTINUE READING THE MAIN STORY
16
COMMENTS
It used data from two surveys. One was a statewide health survey in Massachusetts that asked people if they were transgender and found that 0.5 percent of people said they were. Another was a California survey about tobacco use among lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people. Just over 3 percent identified as transgender, implying that 0.1 percent of adults in California were transgender, based on the Williams Institute’s estimate of the percentage of the total population that is L.G.B.T. (3.5 percent).

Mr. Gates of the Williams Institute, who wrote the paper, says his conclusion that 0.3 percent of the total population is transgender is only a rough estimate. The institute announced in March that it was part of a group undertaking a survey of 350,000 people, conducted by Gallup, to study the transgender population.

It has also been pushing the Census Bureau and other government agencies to measure gender identity. In a statement, the Census Bureau said that it did not plan to collect data on transgender people in the 2020 census but that it was working with other agencies to improve measurement of L.G.B.T. people in federal surveys.